Our game design consists of three different subclasses (Bathroom, Bedroom, and Livingroom) inherent from a parent Room class. All three rooms share the same constructor, and the same unlock method. We overridden examine() and getEntryMethod() so that every room examines room-specific objects and only access room-specific passcodes. These three rooms and the character class are associated with the gameloop class because the game components are assembled inside the Gameloop. Inside the game loop, we initialize instances of each class and they can be used to call the specific methods. All the gameloop methods are responsible for dealing with repetitive responses to user input, such as InvalidInput(), background(), welcomeMessage(), and exitPrompt(). I think this design is very efficient since our three rooms share similar features but differs greatly in terms of the clues. One thing that could be a little bit confusing is we have an enter() method to control the position of the character and an unlock() method for rooms, even though unlocking the room means the person enters the next room. But since there are access restriction for different attributes(like position is only accessible inside character and room entry_method is only accessible inside different room classes), it made it hard to create one method to call inside gameloop. 

One possible alternative is to arrange each object as one class so that these objects can have an aggregation relationship with the rooms. Different objects can be stored into an array inside the rooms and call each objects separately. This could be more object oriented because everything inside the game is a class. This also helps avoid a lot of the “hard-coding” we have inside gameloop when the game ask whether the user want to unlock a further clue inside the objects. We didn’t end up choosing this design because it is a lot of extra work since we don’t have a lot of repeated objects. For example, it only makes sense that the fireplace only occurs in the living room and the bathtub is in the bathroom. Instead of a class, we just have a method for each object inside the array of objects inside the rooms. Although our current strategy is more “hard-coding” when printing out the clues, we do think it is better than ending up with 10 or more files.